1) pwd- this command prints the current working directory.It gives us the absolute path.

2) ls - It lists the file and folder in the directory that you specify

-l: Long list format – Displays additional details such as file size, modified date/time stamp, etc., for each item listed
-r: Reverse order while sorting – Sorts items in reverse alphabetical/numerical order
-t: Sort by modification time – Orders items based on their last-modified timestamp
-a: displays the hidden file.


3) cd - This command changes the directory. To go back to the folder before that use cd ..

4) mkdir - This command allows you to create new directories.

5) rm - This is used to delete a file or directory. We use rm -r to delete a directory 
6) cp- cp command is used to copy files or directory or group of files.

7) mv command is used to move files or directories  from one place to another. This command can also be used to rename a file.

8) cat- this command is used to display the contents of file.

9) grep- It searches for line which contains the search pattern.

10) exit- The exit command will end the execution of a shell script and will close a terminal window.


11) touch- this command is used to create a new blank file. Use vi to edit the file.

12) clear- this command is used to clear the terminal screen.



Commands executed on terminal in this video 

PLEASE Note: ****THESE COMMANDS ARE JUST FOR YOUR REFERENCE. YOU SHOULD COPY AND PASTE THEM FROM THE TEXT FILE INSTEAD YOU SHOULD TYPE THE COMMAND ON YOUR OWN ON THE TERMINAL
FOR BETTER UNDERSTANDING*******

1) pwd

2) clear

3) ls -ltrs 

4) ls -a 

5) cd bigdata_cloudyml

6) cd ..

7) mkdir bigdata3

8) rm orders.java
9) rm -r bigdata3
10) cp filea.txt bigdata3
11) cd bigdata3
12) ls  

13) mv file_a.txt file1_a.txt

14) ls

15) touch bigdata.txt

16) vi bigdata.txt

17)  cat bigdata.txt

18) cd bigdata3

19) grep Welcome *.txt

20) grep Cloudyml *.txt

21)  exit